Title: Welcome to EMF!
Author: David
Tags: EMF

Welcome to EMF! A lot of you will have seen us setup last night for a few
hours, so thanks to everybody who dropped by.  Hopefully later today we'll set
up again and keep running continuously for the rest of the weekend.  Also,
we're hoping to get the interactivity working by tonight.

More importantly, here's how to get started contributing your own patterns.
All of our code is available at [Our
github](https://www.github.com/cillian64/thegrid/).  This includes a number of
patterns which you can copy and modify, and everything you need to test them
out on your own laptop.  Once you're happy, make a pull request against our
repository and we'll include the good ones.

**OUTDATED! Please see more recent blog post for 2016 information.**

Setup steps:

    git clone https://github.com/cillian64/thegrid.git
    cd thegrid/control/thegrid
    cp settings.py.sample settings.py
    cd ..
    python -m thegrid.control

This should start up the control server. To load a pattern, in a new window
run:

    cd thegrid/control/thegrid
    python api.py load_pattern Sparkle

Replacing `Sparkle` with whichever pattern name.

A sample pattern is available in `control/thegrid/sample.py`. The key concept
is that you will need to make a new class, `YourPattern`, which inherits from
`Pattern`, and decorate it with `@register_pattern("Your Pattern Name")`. It
ust contain at least `update(self)` which should return `(a 7x7 numpy bool
array, the time in seconds until the next frame)`. `Pattern` and
`register_pattern` are imported as `from .pattern import Pattern,
register_pattern`. See that sample.py file for a full example.

Add your own new pattern as a .py file in `patterns`, then add `from . import
your_file_name` to `patterns/__init__.py` to cause it to get imported and
registered.

Drop us a tweet @__thegrid or email (below) for any other help. Either send us
your new pattern.py file or better yet, open a pull request on GitHub.


If you want to get in contact with us, drop an email to
[the.grid@drhouse.me.uk](mailto:the.grid@drhouse.me.uk), tweet us at
[__thegrid](https://www.twitter.com/__thegrid), or come find us at HABville or
milling around The·Grid.
